# The technical interviews reform manifesto

Us, Web Developers, Mobile developers and in general Software engineers, are deeply worried about the direction of technical hiring process which excludes talented people from the job market, leads to sub-optimal choices and costs time and money to both companies and ourselves. Given the above, we endorse the following points:
## Clear, transparent and well-defined interview processes
We want to know the steps and what we need to achieve to be successful in them in advance. No spontaneous tech challenges magically appearing after technical screening has already happened. We also want to know how many face to face meetings will take place and how long they will last so we can do the necessary arrangements with our existing work or other obligations.
## A fair split of effort spent between hiring and us, when it comes to candidate filtering
We understand bigger corporations receive many resumes, and we also understand smaller companies do not have the means to personally filter and investigate every candidate’s past projects and public repositories or other open source contributions. We are willing to do work on our end to help you with screening, but we expect the split to be fair. Ask for our salary expectations upfront, and be sure you can follow-through with our initial verbal agreement before we move into the next steps. 
## In person interviews should take into highest consideration the physical and emotional comfort of the applicant 
As documented in the past by many of us, we find whiteboard interviews backwards thinking, inefficient and unrepresentative of our talent and skills and we are strongly sceptical of interview processes that involve these kinds of tests. We are willing to bring our own personal laptop and pair-program with the help of a screen projector, although ideally we would prefer some privacy in order to be able to focus - which is primordial for our productiveness. If the in person process lasts for more than a few hours, hydrating beverages, snacks or a meal should be provided by the company.
## Thorough post interview feedback and review of any coding assignments we delivered
We invested time to accomplish unpaid take home assignments, We possibly participated in hour long interviews, had to be absent from our current work, worked in weekends or evenings, neglecting our personal life and possibly adding extra strain to our personal help. The least we expect is your objective technical review of our work, or in case of more high level feedback, your honest worries and doubts about our candidacy. 
## Willingness to take into account constructive feedback about your hiring process
We are willing to provide you with post-process feedback about your hiring process, such as this document, and you should be actively asking for it and willing to take it into account for the future.  

